Created tutorial for Zapper (#1110)
moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam-docs: tutorials/integrations/zapper.md

---

> title: Portfolio Tracking on Moonbeam with Zapper

Reviewer: I figured I'd take this opportunity to share a quick note, just in case it's helpful. If you already know this, feel free to ignore me!

This title is specifically used for SEO purposes — it's often called a meta title. For every meta title, ` | Moonbeam Docs` is automatically appended. So, for example, this one would appear as: `Portfolio Tracking on Moonbeam with Zapper | Moonbeam Docs`

Author: Thanks for this! I wasn't aware <3

> description: Learn how to track your holdings on Moonbeam using Zapper and interact with different DeFi platforms on the Moonbeam Ecosystem.

Reviewer: So you can interact with the DeFi platforms through Zapper? Like sending transactions? Or is it just viewing activity on the various platforms?

Reviewer: This should say: "in the Moonbeam ecosystem."

Use "in" instead of "on" and no need to capitalize "ecosystem"

Reviewer: Ok, sounds good. Thanks!

---

# Portfolio Tracking with Zapper

## Introduction

> [Zapper](https://zapper.xyz){target=\_blank} is a powerful Web3 application that allows users to explore on-chain data, manage portfolios, and interact with various decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols across multiple networks, including Moonbeam. Integrating with Zapper allows users to seamlessly monitor and manage assets across Moonbeam's DeFi ecosystem, including Moonwell, StellaSwap, OmniLST, and Prime Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Zapper](https://zapper.xyz){target=\_blank} is a Web3 application that enables users to explore on-chain data, manage their portfolios, and interact with decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols across multiple networks, including Moonbeam. Through its integration with Zapper, users can monitor and manage assets across Moonbeam’s DeFi ecosystem, including platforms such as Moonwell, StellaSwap, OmniLST, and Prime Protocol.
```

Let's remove subjective words like "powerful" and try to make this a little bit more concise

![Zapper main site](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-1.webp)
2. Select your preferred wallet from the supported options (e.g., MetaMask, Talisman, Coinbase Wallet)
![Zapper wallet modal](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-2.webp)
3. Follow the on-screen prompts to connect securely to Zapper

### Explore Your Portfolio

Once your wallet is connected, Zapper will automatically detect and display your assets across supported networks, including Moonbeam. You can navigate to your main dashboard by clicking on **My profile** on the left sidebar or selecting it from the wallet icon on the top-right corner. The dashboard provides an overview of your holdings and activity split in the following categories:

- **Summary**: displays your total assets, liabilities, and net worth across all networks
- **Tokens**: lists all tokens held in your connected wallet, including GLMR (Moonbeam's native token) and any ERC-20 tokens
- **DeFi**: shows active positions in Moonbeam-based DeFi platforms such as lending, liquidity pools, and staking
- **NFTs**: displays any NFTs you own on Moonbeam or other supported chains

> - **Activity**: Zapper's dashboard provides real-time data, enabling efficient management of your on-chain activities

Reviewer: List items should be in the following format:

`- **Title** - description`

Reviewer: Please update all list items throughout the guide

![Zapper Dashboard](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-3.webp)

### Engage with Moonbeam's DeFi Ecosystem

Zapper provides access to view the activity on Moonbeam's DeFi protocols, such as:

- [**Moonwell**](https://moonwell.fi/){target=\_blank}: for accessing lending and borrowing services
- [**StellaSwap**](https://app.stellaswap.com/exchange/swap){target=\_blank}: for participating in token swaps and liquidity provision by depositing token pairs into StellaSwap's liquidity pools
- [**OmniLST**](https://omni.ls/){target=\_blank}: for engaging in liquid staking opportunities (stake GLMR tokens to receive liquid staking tokens and use them in other DeFi applications)
- [**Prime Protocol**](https://www.primeprotocol.xyz/){target=\_blank}: for managing cross-chain assets and accessing borrowing services (deposit assets as collateral to borrow across multiple chains)

You can follow these steps to review any of the aforementioned protocols:

> 1. Select **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar. You'll be able to view the most trending DApps in the ecosystem and click on the protocol you want to explore 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Moonbeam** from the chain filter in the left sidebar. This will display the most trending dApps in the ecosystem. Click on the protocol you wish to explore
```

This slight change keeps it more action-oriented

![Zapper DeFi Section](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-4.webp)

> 2. In the **Activity** tab, you'll be able to see the latest transactions for the selected protocol: token swaps, LP or staking on StellaSwap’s decentralized exchange, lending and borrowing transactions on Moonwell, staked GLMR on OmniLST and any other supported DApp on Zapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Activity** tab, view the latest transactions for the selected protocol, including token swaps, LP or staking on StellaSwap, lending and borrowing on Moonwell, staked GLMR on OmniLST, and activity on other supported dApps
```

This suggestion is to make it a little bit more concise

![StellaSwap on Zapper](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-5.webp)

> 3. You'll also be able to view other details of the selected protocol, such as the daily active users and the daily transactions in the left side-bar, all deployed smart contracts in the **Contracts** tab and your own holdings on the protocol by going to the **Properties** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. View additional details for the selected protocol, including daily active users and daily transactions in the left sidebar, deployed smart contracts in the **Contracts** tab, and your holdings in the protocol via the **Properties** tab.
```

> ### Access Moonbeam Assets on Zapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Access and Manage Moonbeam Assets
```

I suggest changing this a little bit to reflect that this section is about more than accessing assets, like you're also showing them how to swap assets. Also we can make it a little shorter by removing "on Zapper" since this whole guide is about using Zapper and it's implied

Zapper also has an integrated modal for seamlessly swapping assets on Moonbeam. Users can access this feature by selecting **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar and choosing the desired token on the right sidebar.

![Zapper Token Selection](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-6.webp)

Inside the token page, users will be able to see the asset's performance (price action, volumes, holders, and transactions). The swap modal will be accesible by clicking on the **Buy**/**Sell** buttons on the left sidebar. 

![Zapper Swap Modal](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-7.webp)

Inside the swap modal you can select the assets for swapping, input the desired quantity for the token you want to sell, and click on **Review order** to sign and submit the transaction.

> ![Zapper Swap Modal](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-8.webp)

Reviewer: How can we make this more action oriented? And instead of saying "users", let's directly speak to the user reading this guide

Author: Changed it to address the reader and also made it action oriented

## Integrate with Zapper's API

Developers can leverage Zapper's API to enrich their applications with comprehensive DeFi data from the Moonbeam network.

You can register for an API key by visiting the [Zapper API portal](https://protocol.zapper.xyz){target=\_blank}. An API key is necessary to authenticate your application and access Zapper's endpoints. 

Zapper offers several endpoints to fetch relevant data, such as:

- **Balances**: retrieve asset balances for addresses on Moonbeam
- **Transactions**: access transaction histories
- **Prices**: obtain real-time token prices

Furthermore, you can familiarize yourself with the [Zapper API documentation](https://protocol.zapper.xyz/docs/api){target=\_blank}, which provides detailed information on the available endpoints, request structures, and response formats.

> Depending on your preferred programming language, you can set up your environment to make HTTP requests to Zapper's API. Below is an example using Node.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your preferred programming language, you can set up your environment to make HTTP requests to Zapper's API. Below is an example using Node.js and [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro){target=\_blank}:
```

Reviewer: Adding the link to Axios will help users get to the install instructions if they need them

??? code "Retrieve token balances"
    ```javascript
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/token-balances.js'
    ```

> 

Reviewer: If we're specifically pointing out something, then I don't think we should make the users to click on it to see it. So, I don't think this code needs to be in an expandable element. Especially since it's pretty short

Author: Removed the expandable code and made it a regular code block

> This script retrieves token balances for a specified wallet address on the Moonbeam network.

Reviewer: I would actually include this in the intro section leading up to the code snippet, so something like:

"Below is an example of retrieving token balances for a specified wallet address on Moonbeam, using Node.js and [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro){target=\_blank}:"

Author: Done

!!! note 

> 	Ensure that your application handles API responses appropriately and includes error-handling mechanisms.

Reviewer: This looks like it's formatted a bit weird (might just be a GitHub thing), but there should only be an indent of 4 spaces

Author: Looks like a GH thing, the indent is 4 spaces when I look at it locally

Reviewer: Ok, thanks for checking!

> By following this tutorial, users and developers can effectively integrate with the Zapper DApp, building powerful applications to enhance their interaction with the Moonbeam network and its DeFi ecosystem. 

Reviewer: This seems like more of an introductory statement than a closing statement. For a closing statement, I'd say something more along the lines of "you have learned how to integrate..." rather than "you can integrate"

Author: Changed as well, thanks for the suggestion!

[Zapper](https://zapper.xyz){target=\_blank} is a powerful Web3 application that allows users to explore on-chain data, manage portfolios, and interact with various decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols across multiple networks, including Moonbeam. By integrating with Zapper, users can seamlessly monitor and manage assets across Moonbeam's DeFi ecosystem, including Moonwell, StellaSwap, OmniLST, and Prime Protocol.

This tutorial provides a detailed step-by-step guide for both users and developers to integrate with Zapper and maximize their experience within the Moonbeam ecosystem.

## Getting Started on Zapper

You can navigate to [Zapper's official website](https://zapper.xyz){target=\_blank} and take the following steps to start interacting with the application:

- Click on the **Connect Wallet** button at the top right corner.

![Zapper main site](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-1.webp)

- Select your preferred wallet from the supported options (e.g., MetaMask, Talisman, Coinbase Wallet).

![Zapper wallet modal](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-2.webp)

- Follow the on-screen prompts to connect securely to Zapper.

### Explore Your Portfolio

> Once your wallet is connected, Zapper will automatically detect and display your assets across supported networks, including Moonbeam. You can navigate to your main dashboard by clicking on **My Profile** on the left sidebar or selecting it from the wallet icon on the top-right corner. The dashboard provides an overview of your holdings and activity split in the following categories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your wallet is connected, Zapper will automatically detect and display your assets across supported networks, including Moonbeam. You can navigate to your main dashboard by clicking on **My Profile** on the left sidebar or selecting it from the wallet icon in the top-right corner. The dashboard provides an overview of your holdings and activity split into the following categories:
```

- **Net Worth Summary**: Displays your total assets, liabilities, and net worth across all networks
- **Token Balances**: Lists all tokens held in your connected wallet, including GLMR (Moonbeam's native token) and any ERC-20 tokens
- **DeFi Positions**: Shows active positions in Moonbeam-based DeFi platforms such as lending, liquidity pools, and staking
- **NFTs**: Displays any NFTs you own on Moonbeam or other supported chains
- **On-Chain Activity**: Zapper's dashboard provides real-time data, enabling efficient management of your DeFi activities

![Zapper Dashboard](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-3.webp)

### Engage with Moonbeam's DeFi Ecosystem

> Zapper provides access to view the activity on Moonbeam's DeFi protocols such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zapper provides access to view the activity on Moonbeam's DeFi protocols, such as:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Would be great to have the links for each of these protocols added - for Moonwell, StellaSwap, Omni, and Prime.

- **Moonwell**: For accessing lending and borrowing services
- **StellaSwap**: For participating in token swaps and liquidity provision by depositing token pairs into StellaSwap's liquidity pools
- **OmniLST**: For Engaging in liquid staking opportunities (Stake GLMR tokens to receive liquid staking tokens and use them in other DeFi applications)

> - **Prime Protocol**: For managing cross-chain assets and accesing borrowing services (deposit assets as collateral to borrow across multiple chains)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Prime Protocol**: For managing cross-chain assets and accessing borrowing services (deposit assets as collateral to borrow across multiple chains)
```

You can follow these steps to review any of the aforementioned protocols:

- Select **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar. Go to the **DeFi** section below Trending Apps and choose the application you want to review. 

![Zapper DeFi Section](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-4.webp)

- In the **Activity** tab, You'll be able to see the latest transactions for the selected protocol: Token swaps, LP or staking on StellaSwap’s decentralized exchange, lending and borrowing transactions on Moonwell, Staked GLMR on OmniLST and any other supported DApp on Zapper. 

![StellaSwap on Zapper](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-5.webp)

- You'll also be able to view other details of the selected protocol, such as the daily active users and the daily transactions in the left side-bar, all deployed smart contracts in the **Contracts** tab and your own holdings on the protocol by going to the **Properties** tab.

## Accessing Moonbeam Assets on Zapper

> Zapper also has an integrated modal for seamlessly swapping assets on Moonbeam. User's can access this feature by selecting **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar and choosing the desired token on the right sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zapper also has an integrated modal for seamlessly swapping assets on Moonbeam. Users can access this feature by selecting **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar and choosing the desired token on the right sidebar.
```

![Zapper Token Selection](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-6.webp)

> Inside the token page user's will be able to see the asset's performance (price action, volumes, holders and transactions). The swap modal will be located at the right-side of the price chart, where you can select the assets for swapping, input the desired quantity for the token you want to sell and click on **Review Order** to sign and submit the swap transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the token page, users will be able to see the asset's performance (price action, volumes, holders, and transactions). The swap modal will be located at the right side of the price chart, where you can select the assets for swapping, input the desired quantity for the token you want to sell, and click on **Review Order** to sign and submit the swap transaction.
```

![Zapper Swap Modal](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-7.webp)

## Integrating with Zapper's API

Developers can leverage Zapper's API to enrich their applications with comprehensive DeFi data from the Moonbeam network.

You can register for an API key by visiting the [Zapper API portal](https://protocol.zapper.xyz){target=\_blank}. An API key is necessary to authenticate your application and access Zapper's endpoints. 

> Zapper offers several endpoints to fetch relevant data such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zapper offers several endpoints to fetch relevant data, such as:
```

- **Balances**: Retrieve asset balances for addresses on Moonbeam
- **Transactions**: Access transaction histories
- **Prices**: Obtain real-time token prices

Furthermore, you can familiarize yourself with the [Zapper API documentation](https://protocol.zapper.xyz/docs/api){target=\_blank}, which provides detailed information on the available endpoints, request structures, and response formats.

Depending on your preferred programming language, you can set up your environment to make HTTP requests to Zapper's API. Below is an example using Node.js:

??? code "Retrieve token balances"
    ```javascript
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/token-balances.js'
    ```

This script retrieves token balances for a specified wallet address on the Moonbeam network.

!!! note 

> 	Ensure that your application handles API responses appropriately and includes error handling mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	Ensure that your application handles API responses appropriately and includes error-handling mechanisms.
```

By following this tutorial, users and developers can effectively integrate with the Zapper DApp, building powerful applications to enhance their interaction with the Moonbeam network and its DeFi ecosystem. 

### Additional Resources

> You can explore the [Zapper API GitHub repository](https://github.com/Zapper-fi/Docs){target=\_blank} for code examples and community contributions, or refer to [Zapper's integration guides](https://zapper.gitbook.io/integrations){target=\_blank} and [Moonbeam's Developer Portal](https://docs.moonbeam.network){target=\_blank} for detailed instructions and best practices on how to build your DApp and integrate it with Zapper.

Reviewer 3: We can remove the Moonbeam Docs Link from this.

description: Learn how to track your holdings on Moonbeam using Zapper and interact with different DeFi platforms on the Moonbeam Ecosystem.
---

# Portfolio Tracking with Zapper

## What is Zapper?

Zapper is a powerful Web3 application that allows users to explore on-chain data, manage portfolios, and interact with various decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols across multiple networks, including Moonbeam. By integrating with Zapper, users can seamlessly monitor and manage assets across Moonbeam's DeFi ecosystem, including Moonwell, StellaSwap, OmniLST, and Prime Protocol.

This tutorial provides a detailed step-by-step guide for both users and developers to integrate with Zapper and maximize their experience within the Moonbeam ecosystem.

## Accessing Moonbeam Assets on Zapper

You can navigate to [Zapper's official website](https://zapper.xyz){target=\_blank} and take the following steps to start interacting with the application:

1. Click on the **Connect Wallet** button at the top right corner.
2. Select your preferred wallet from the supported options (e.g., MetaMask, Talisman, Coinbase Wallet).
3. Follow the on-screen prompts to connect securely to Zapper.

> ![Zapper main site](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-1.webp)

Reviewer 2: Yes, you are correct; we don't use the circled box. For more reference regarding the screenshot, you can check out our guide https://papermoon.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DR/pages/885261/Docs+Standards#Screenshots.

Ibra, once you address these comments, please tag me so I can do the formatting review.

- **DeFi Positions**: Shows active positions in Moonbeam-based DeFi platforms such as lending, liquidity pools, and staking.
- **NFTs**: Displays any NFTs you own on Moonbeam or other supported chains.
- **On-Chain Activity**: Zapper's dashboard provides real-time data, enabling efficient management of your DeFi activities.

![Zapper Dashboard](/images/tutorials/integrations/Zapper/zapper-3.webp)

### Engage with Moonbeam's DeFi Ecosystem

Zapper provides access to interact directly with Moonbeam's DeFi protocols such as:

- **Moonwell**: Access lending and borrowing services.
- **StellaSwap**: Participate in token swaps and liquidity provision by depositing token pairs into StellaSwap liquidity pools.
- **OmniLST**: Engage in liquid staking opportunities (Stake GLMR tokens to receive liquid staking tokens and use them in other DeFi applications).
- **Prime Protocol**: Manage cross-chain assets and leverage borrowing services (deposit assets as collateral to borrow across multiple chains).

Follow these steps to interact with any of these protocols:

1. Select **Moonbeam** in the chain filter on the left sidebar.

> 2. Go to the **DeFi** section below Trending Apps and chose the protocol you want to interact with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Go to the **DeFi** section below Trending Apps and choose the protocol you want to interact with.
```
